-[Noel] This time…
-[Alison] What is this?
I can't possibly comment
on what that looks like.
-…it's Chocolate Week.
-Worried about all of it, really.
[Noel] The bakers let loose with mousse
in the Signature…
-Hope it's not tirami-soupy.
-…innovate…
Behold, the gingham pantry.
…in a never-before-seen Technical…
[gasps] Nightmare.
…and go gooey
with incredible Showstoppers.
[Alison] That's so good.
[Noel] Whose food of love
will seduce the judges?
That's a beautiful chocolate biscuit.
-And who…
-I was way too chill.
-…will crack under the pressure.
-[gasps]
Surgery.
[opening theme music playing]
[birds chirping]
-[uplifting music playing]
-[indistinct chatter]
[Jasmine] Come on! Wait. Come on.
[Iain] Last week was really fun.
Yeah, that Showstopper did not go well,
so hopefully this week breaks the cycle.
-[Lesley] Real chocoholic.
-[laughter]
[Tom] I do love chocolate,
so maybe I'll eat these words,
but I'm looking forward to it.
So, yeah, I'm ready.
[chuckling] I am so scared of chocolate.
[Nadia] I feel like I know what I'm doing,
so fingers crossed it all goes to plan.
Hello, bakers. Welcome back to the tent.
It is Chocolate Week.
Now, for your chocolate Signature bake,
the judges would like you to make some
highly decorated chocolate mousse cups.
Now, Chocolate Mousse Cups
is actually my stage name
for when I do burlesque.
If I do break out into any dancing,
I do apologise.
[all laughing]
[Noel] The judges are looking for
some indulgent chocolate mousse desserts
inside edible chocolate cups.
[Alison] You can use
any chocolate that you like,
but there must be a baked element
in your cups.
-You have two and a half hours.
-On your marks.
-Get set.
-Bake!
[cheerful music playing]
Choccy Week. It has begun.
Chocolate Week, and it's not super hot.
I think we're on to a winner today.
[gasps, exclaims]
The Signature challenge is a chocolate cup
filled with a chocolate mousse.
What could be better than that?
So I'm just starting to melt my chocolate.
[Paul] They've got two and a half hours
to produce
their own tempered chocolate cup.
This is 70% dark chocolate.
It's quite fruity.
Tempering is basically melting chocolate,
cooling it, and then warming it slightly.
I had successfully tempered the chocolate
at home.
The chocolate, when it is finally set,
will be very shiny.
It will also have that snap
and come away from the mould more easily.
[chuckling] But now, who knows?
What is a mousse?
A mousse is quite light
and melts in the mouth.
But it must be set.
Not too worried.
We wanted to have some baked element
in there somewhere.
I'm starting with a biscuit.
Fresh fruits like cherries,
very good with chocolate.
I think it's a winner.
I'm excited for this challenge.
I love chocolate. I love mousse.
What's there not to like?
Am I worried?
Obviously.
[birds chirping]
-[Paul] Morning, Lesley.
-Good morning. Good morning.
Lesley, what are you doing
about your mousse cup?
So we're doing a dark chocolate cup…
-Yeah.
-…a mascarpone cream,
chocolate mousse, coffee liqueur,
a little sponge biscuit, a walnut praline,
and then I'm topping it all off
with a whipped coffee,
white chocolate ganache…
Wow.
…with a caramelised banana
and some of the praline.
I like someone that challenges themselves
for two and a half hours.
[Alison] Lesley's ambitious take
on a tiramisu
will feature no fewer
than six separate elements,
as well as a chocolate spoon
to eat it with.
Allow yourself time for setting.
It's the critical thing in this challenge.
Good luck.
-Thank you.
-Yes, Lesley.
-Probably gonna need it.
-[all laughing]
[Noel] And Lesley's not the only baker…
-Right, we're in.
-…putting this classic Italian dessert…
[Aaron] You want to maintain as much air
in the egg whites as possible
so you get a nice, light biscuit.
…into a chocolate cup.
[Aaron] I've only practised this once.
I actually thought it was two hours,
not two and a half hours.
Now I'm like, I've got extra time.
But time goes so fast in this place.
[Noel] Aaron's tiramisu will come moulded
in real espresso cups and lids.
An almond sablé will be on hand
to dip into the chocolate mousse.
If it's only that big,
it's got to be pretty rich.
[Alison] Prue,
are you saying you want more?
I don't want to feel cheated.
I've gone to a restaurant,
I've paid a lot of money.
-So I think it is enough.
-[Paul] Good luck, Aaron.
Thank you very much.
Some people would say it's not about size.
In this case,
it seems all about size. [laughs]
But Tom is also doing a similar thing.
Biscotti, Italian for twice cooked.
So mine needs to be better.
So it's gone straight back in.
We have Tiramoussooo.
[Alison] Tom will avoid being
too tirami-similar
by adding coffee-soaked biscotti
to his cups
to separate
two different flavoured mousses.
Are you putting booze in this?
I can see some booze.
-Yeah, there's booze in this part here.
-For Prue.
-Is Paul not a big drinker?
-Paul likes a piña colada.
Yeah, he does. [laughs]
Have you ever had a banana colada?
-You're making this up.
-I'm not.
[Noel] If you get to the final,
we'll have banana coladas.
-Deal.
-I'll see you there.
I'm gonna start to fill my moulds.
Let's give this a go.
[Noel] The chocolate will start setting…
It's fairly messy, this, isn't it?
…as soon as it hits the moulds.
It's just now working fast.
[Noel] Fail to work fast…
I need my white chocolate,
and I put it with the waves.
…and the bakers won't produce
the delicate chocolate cups…
You can see the chocolate
is getting really thick really quickly.
…the judges are expecting.
This is setting much, much faster
than it has at home.
Like, I can barely even tip it
around the mould.
This isn't good.
Panic is setting in.
[Noel] Toby's shells will contain
an orange-infused chocolate mousse,
a set orange gel, and an orange
liqueur-soaked Earl Grey sponge.
And where did the inspiration
come for this?
My dress.
[laughter]
I like to have fruit in a lot of my bakes,
'cause I think it lightens it
a little bit.
And orange and chocolate
are such a classic.
Yeah, exactly.
[Alison] And Toby's not the only baker…
There might be
enough actual orange in these
to contribute towards your 5 A Day.
…keen to boost the judges' fruit intake.
We are gonna blend
some strawberries together.
Hopefully, we'll get a nice mousse
setting in the fridge.
[Alison] Nadia will pipe pistachio cream
into her white chocolate cups,
then top with crumbled Viennese biscuit
and white chocolate and strawberry mousse.
So this here is a little bit
of double cream and gelatine.
[Noel] Gelatine can help
stabilise the mousses…
In that, we're gonna put our strawberries.
…but to reach the desired texture…
[Aaron] Wish I'd put
more gelatine in this.
…the most important thing…
I'm gonna whip up double cream,
and then whip up some egg whites as well.
…is to whip air into the cream
or egg white base.
So that creates the aerated mousse.
Hopefully, anyway.
[Noel] Aerate insufficiently…
Very lightly whipped cream.
…and they'll end up with a runny mousse.
Hope it's not tirami-soupy.
Now, this is where it goes everywhere.
And then I'll put the set mousse
into the shell once it's set.
How long have we got left?
Bakers, you are halfway through.
[Alison] With mousses safely tucked away…
So this is my orange liqueur syrup.
This is an almond sablé,
which is shaped like a croissant.
…the bakers can move on
to the additional elements…
Who doesn't like Viennese biscuits?
Let's be honest.
…that they hope will elevate
their creations.
I'm now making the cores.
They're milk chocolate hazelnut butter,
so there's this soft centre.
[Noel] Jasmine will embed
the hazelnut cores
into her moulded mousses
before finishing with a hazelnut tuile
and a hazelnut caramel.
[Jasmine] I'm making my caramel.
[Noel] What's been happening
in your real life?
-I was on placement in hospital yesterday.
-Have you got a doctor's bag?
No.
-That's for when I've qualified.
-Is it?
I used to carry around
a brown doctor's bag for fashion purposes.
But sometimes,
people used to think I was a doctor.
Oh, and they go, "Doctor! Doctor!"
Ah! Not me! [laughs]
-[Alison] While Aaron and Lesley…
-[Lesley] Going in with me walnuts.
…are also going nuts for caramel…
[Nataliia] I'm gonna do my jam.
In Ukrainian, it's varenye.
Varenye.
[Alison] This challenge offers Nataliia
the chance to revisit
her fruit-filled childhood.
[Nataliia] My brother and I
were picking the berries
in the gardens of my grandma.
Take it back to Granny's garden.
Babushka! [giggles]
[Noel] Nataliia's set berry compôte
will be infused with almond liqueur
and sit between layers of Joconde sponge
and dark chocolate mousse.
[Nataliia] More amaretto.
Let's make it strong!
Perfecto!
[Noel] But it's not just Nataliia…
Pouring out some of this beer.
…who could leave the judges
three sheets to the wind.
[Iain] Whenever I went to Belgium
for the first time,
this was on draft everywhere.
It's really easy drinking, you know?
[Alison] Iain's take
on a Black Forest gateau
will be presented in dark chocolate
Belgian beer goblets
and include Chantilly cream froth
and a cherry beer gel.
[Prue] Have you had all you need of this?
Yeah, that's it. You can… That's yours.
[Alison and Iain laughing]
Is this the only reason youse have
kept me here, is to have some drink?
-Oh, I'm loving your work.
-[Iain laughs]
[Noel] The bakers will need to be
in full possession of their faculties
for the next step.
[Aaron] The difference between
it going well and not well
is how heavy-handed you want to be.
Wearing gloves just to stop
the fingerprints on the chocolate.
-Whoo!
-[Iain] Yeah!
Aren't they so shiny?
Ah, you all doubted me! [laughs]
Yeah, there's no way I can serve that.
Look how thick that is.
That is not what they're after.
I need to hurry up 'cause I want to do
these chocolates again.
Bakers, you've got half an hour left.
Now, onto the more scary part,
putting the chocolate cups in a hot pan.
-[Nataliia] There.
-[Tom] That's the one.
The consistency is much better
for actually coating these moulds now.
[Nadia] Yeah, I don't know
if I'm gonna use this.
[Alison] And Toby's not the only baker
considering a chocolate reset.
[Nadia] Not feeling them colours, you see.
If I hadn't have put
that stupid decoration on there,
I'd be sound now.
But Nadia, being me…
Go down to the wire.
Just get carried away, Noel,
and start adding things
that are unnecessary.
It's thin now, innit?
This will also mean it's a lot more fiddly
to get out of the cup.
So this is a coffee liqueur.
[Tom] Adding the chocolate mousse in.
[whimsical music playing]
-Hello.
-[Alison] What's going on down here?
Look at this intricate stuff.
[Iain] Yeah, we're just assembling
the wee stems.
[Jasmine] This is a precarious bit.
Are you a white, milk,
or dark chocolate man?
Oh, I'm as dark as you can get.
-You like dark chocolate?
-Yeah, absolutely.
That makes me very happy
that you like dark chocolate.
Why? [laughs]
This is amaretto.
I hope Paul and Prue will like it.
Bakers, you only have 15 minutes left.
[Iain] Ah, that's gonna be tight.
No, come on.
And I still need to make a Chantilly.
[Toby] So I'm dipping
the Earl Grey sponge,
squeezing out the excess
and pushing it through.
[Nadia] My biscuit crumb.
[Nataliia] Compôte.
[Aaron] Oh, no, that's moussey.
[Tom] I have overfilled them
pretty much every time in practice.
I'm going in with the caramel.
[Aaron] I think he might say there's
too much caramel, but not in my world.
I'm just a bit worried about the time now.
I was way too chill.
This is the orange gel, which I've not
managed to get to set in practice.
-Don't tell me in front of these people.
-It's all right. I can tell you.
-You don't judge it, right?
-No, no, no.
You're the cheerleader.
I'm just gonna put the ganache on top,
which hopefully
will give a nice, smooth finish.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Aaron] Whose are better, mine or Tom's?
[chuckles]
It's a mousse in a cup.
How decorative can it be?
Oh! My ganache has split a little bit.
Ah!
[gasps] Oh…
[gasps]
One's a bit cracked. I'm so stressed.
Cracked there, there, and there.
Oh, I'm really annoyed at myself here.
Bakers, you only have one minute left.
Think that's me done.
We do not have one minute.
No matter what, it's a rush at the end.
Doing hand jelly again.
Can I put my Chantilly on afterwards?
It's a little bit wobbly.
[Aaron] That's what I wanted,
but I couldn't find one.
Oh, well, I've got croissants. He don't.
Bakers, your time is up.
Please step away
from your chocolate mousse cups.
Chocolate mousse cups.
Whip it, Iain! Whip it!
That includes you, Iain.
Yeah, I know.
[Nadia] Wow. Amazing.
[laughing] It's soup in there.
[Toby] It's soup right now.
It's gonna be gel.
Hopefully, they taste nice.
Oh, my God, sick.
He's done the white tops.
-[Nataliia] Yeah. So beautiful.
-Smart guy.
[serene music playing]
[Noel] The bakers' chocolate mousse cups
will now be judged by Prue and Paul.
-Hi, Toby.
-Hi.
Tell us all about your mousse cup.
So, these are my orange
chocolate mousse cups.
They have a white chocolate orange shell,
an orange chocolate anglaise mousse,
an Earl Grey sponge
soaked in orange liqueur,
and then an orange gel on top.
[serene music playing]
[Paul] They've cracked a bit there.
Yeah, that was the first one
that came out.
[Prue] And what is the cake?
Genoise sponge with…
-Oh, gosh, yes.
-…an Earl Grey.
-That's good. [chuckling]
-Boozy?
[Paul] The mousse probably could have done
with a little bit longer.
But your balance of flavour
is very, very good. It's perfect.
[exhales]
I especially like the booze.
-I thought you might.
-[Paul] Well done, Toby.
-Thanks very much. Thank you.
-[Noel laughing]
[suspenseful music playing]
[Prue] Very neat.
-Very precise.
-Very beautiful.
[Paul] Yeah.
There's a dark chocolate shell,
a chocolate mousse,
and then a hazelnut core,
a hazelnut caramel,
and then a chocolate ganache on top.
Mm. Lovely.
Really strong hazelnut flavour.
Beautiful dark chocolate.
It's a real pleasure to eat.
[Paul] The taste is good.
The texture of that mousse
is just slightly gone.
It's softened a little bit too much.
Thank you.
-Thank you, Jasmine.
-Thank you.
[whimsical music playing]
I'm very impressed with the mugs.
Look at the handles and everything.
-I know.
-It's really beautifully done.
This is my chocolate mousse cup
with a Joconde sponge
and also with a berries compôte.
The compôte is lovely punchy flavour.
Yeah.
[Paul] I'm not sure about the setting
on the mousse.
-Yeah.
-But having said that,
the flavour in the mouth is delicious.
-Nice job.
-Thank you very much.
[suspenseful music playing]
-[Paul] I like the look of them.
-[Iain chuckles]
There's something quite medieval about it.
They are a dark chocolate shell
with a chocolate genoise,
dark chocolate mousse, cherry jam,
and a cherry beer jelly,
and a little thing of Chantilly.
[Paul] You didn't get a chance
to put that on.
The last 30 seconds,
it was me going like this.
I really like that.
Lovely mousse. I think it's set well.
[Prue] It's delicious.
I think the chocolate cup
is beautifully done.
The cream would have made a difference,
but it's all good.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-And I'm trying not to eat it.
[Iain laughs]
-Well done, Iain. Thank you.
-Thanks.
[whimsical music playing]
[Paul] Okay.
[Lesley] So, we have got
a dark chocolate cup
with a mascarpone cream,
a chocolate mousse
with a little bit of brandy in.
We have a ladyfinger biscuit
and we've got some walnut praline.
I like the flavour.
-It's very busy.
-Yeah.
Your chocolate mousse layer is so thin,
it's almost like a ganache.
I think you missed the trick
of celebrating that mousse.
-[Lesley] Yeah.
-[Paul] Thank you.
[whimsical music playing]
They look quite interesting,
but a bit messy.
Okay.
[Paul] It's a little bit
all over the place.
[Nadia] My chocolate mousse cups
are white chocolate shells
filled with a pistachio cream,
a Viennese crumb,
a white chocolate and strawberry mousse
with a Viennese biscuit.
I think the strawberry mousse
is delicious, but it is a bit soft.
Okay.
It's a bit like a fool,
which is much looser.
And I think that the biscuit
should be crisper.
-Just think it's all too soft.
-Okay.
-Thank you.
[cheerful music playing]
-[Prue] So sweet.
-[Paul] They look great.
I love the lid, love the whole look of it.
It's very neat.
My chocolate mousse cups
are dark chocolate on the outside
with white chocolate on the top.
The mousse is made from milk chocolate
and gold chocolate.
There's a layer of coffee caramel
and there's also a coffee-soaked
ladyfinger sponge.
[Prue] Mm. [crunches]
I think the flavours are heavenly.
I think it's a pity the mousse isn't set.
I think the balance with the sponge,
the coffee,
the caramel
and the dark chocolate is fantastic.
-It's just the mousse.
-The mousse, right. Thank you.
[cheerful music playing]
They're so neat. Very Tom.
-[chuckles]
-[Prue] Very clever.
-[Paul] Wow!
-[Prue] What about them?
We've got a coffee-soaked biscotti
at the bottom, dark chocolate mousse,
and then we've got a white chocolate
marsala mousse on the top.
And then that's all set
in a white chocolate
with a touch of dark chocolate cup.
It's beautifully thin, Tom,
and I love the mousse.
I think that's the perfect texture.
Oh, that's great to hear.
What it is is it's a balance
of the sweet and the bitter.
Even that chocolate
brings something to it as well.
So the whole thing together,
it is exceptional.
-Well done. Yeah.
-Stop it!
I absolutely agree.
That's what it deserves.
Wow!
That could be for sale in
a patisserie shop in the middle of Paris.
-Oh, stop it!
-Probably do extremely well.
Thank you so much, guys.
-Thank you.
-Wow.
Thank you so much.
-Wow, well done.
-[Tom] Wow.
Looks incredible.
-He's in shock. [laughs]
You cannot ask for better feedback.
I mean, I'm chuffed.
[Prue] That biscotti is beautiful.
[Aaron] I did actually taste Tom's,
and the texture on the mousse
was absolutely perfect.
[laughs]
[Nadia] It wasn't the best, so if I can do
a little bit better on my next two bakes,
then I'll be happy.
Oh, I can't believe that.
I thought that was gonna be
absolutely horrendous.
Yeah, it was great.
What a ride! [laughs]
[birds chirping]
[Alison] While the bakers could practise
for their Signature…
-Oh, my goodness!
-…their next challenge…
This is deception at work.
…is a mysterious, gingham-shrouded…
Stop it!
…Baking Show first.
What is that?
Hello, bakers. Welcome back to the tent.
It's time for your Technical challenge.
Paul, please give our bakers
some wonderful advice.
Keep calm, bakers, and choose wisely.
-[Noel] Ooh.
-[Jasmine] Oh, my gosh.
Okay, as ever, this Technical challenge
will be judged blind,
so we're gonna have to ask
these two lovelies to vacate the tent.
Stay out of the farmer's field.
So, the Prince of Praline
would love you to make
a delicious white chocolate tart.
[Alison] Your tart should feature
a buttery shortcrust pastry
and a silky smooth set
white chocolate ganache.
But that's not all. Instead of a recipe,
the judges would like you
to use artistic licence.
Behold, the gingham pantry!
-[Jasmine] Oh, my…
-[Iain] Whoa!
Wow.
[dramatically]
Behold, the gingham pantry!
-God.
-Okay, you have five minutes
to choose your ingredients.
But whatever you choose
from [dramatically] the gingham pantry,
you have to use.
-[chuckles]
-Your five minutes starts now.
Ah!
-[Noel] Their chosen ingredients…
-[Jasmine] The mint's going.
…must also complement white chocolate.
Doing blackberry.
Someone spot. He's taken basil.
I'm taking a leaf of basil. [chuckles]
Okay, bakers, you've got
two and half hours for this challenge.
-[Noel] On your marks.
-Get set.
[Noel] Bake!
I took berries 'cause I just think
white chocolate and berries.
[Lesley] I'm gonna make
a layer of lemon curd
with a little bit of thyme
to add another level.
I took passion fruit, lemon,
limes, pistachio, blueberries.
[Aaron] If you do too much,
it's gonna bite you in the proverbial.
You were cautious in the presence
of [dramatically] the gingham pantry!
Paul, this is the first time
we've let the bakers
finish a Technical as they like.
[Paul] What we've asked them for
is a shortcrust base
with a set white chocolate ganache
topped with whatever they want
to go with the silky smooth sweetness
from the white chocolate.
I suppose there might be a temptation
to overcomplicate things.
You want to celebrate the white chocolate.
I've chosen a sort of slightly tart
passion fruit and mango.
Now, for the shortcrust base,
we haven't given them the recipe.
For goodness sake,
they know how to make shortcrust pastry.
[Paul] They should do.
I think where they could go wrong
is making it very thick and too robust.
But they make it too thin,
and it can crack easily.
Mm. It's quite refreshing
with the passion fruit and mango.
[Prue] But you can taste the chocolate.
[Paul] It's something you could finish.
Easily. I'm trying not to,
because we have got eight more
to deal with.
-Sorry. I've got to have another piece.
-[chuckles]
Okay. I've made pastry
so many times before. I can do this.
[Tom] I have no recipe
for shortcrust pastry.
I should do. I don't.
Whatever. Sue me.
[Iain] We've got egg, butter,
icing sugar and plain flour.
And I don't know the ratio
that we're meant to use for this.
I'm having a ball here.
I've got no idea what I'm doing.
[Lesley] So I've got a shortcrust recipe
that I use.
Half butter to flour.
[Noel dramatically] The handshake kid!
Not in this Technical.
♪ You are the chosen one
Paul Hollywood's chosen one ♪
Yep. Can never wash the hand.
And when you get home tonight,
just a small taste.
[laughing]
[Alison] To achieve the ideal shortcrust,
the bakers must avoid a host of pitfalls.
[Toby] You want to just add in
enough water to bring it all together.
[Alison] Not enough water,
and the pastry will crumble.
No, it's quite dry.
[Alison] Overwork it,
and it risks being tough.
[Jasmine] Okay.
Just need to make this thin enough
so I can spread it into the tart dish.
[Noel] Rolling also carries peril.
Want to get my pastry tart thin.
[Alison] Good old Tom
getting his handshake.
-Yeah.
-Shall I give you a handshake?
There you go. How does it feel?
Feels all right.
-It's a bit wet. Ugh!
-[laughing]
[Noel] Too thin,
and the tart case could split open.
She's breaking!
What a time to be alive, huh?
[Noel] But roll it too thick,
and the bakers risk serving a jawbreaker.
[Nataliia] I want it to be
thick and crunchy.
[Noel dramatically]
Please, Paul Hollywood.
Who would have thought
it'd be so important
to get touched by one man
that isn't Pierce Brosnan, yeah?
Well, we've learned a lot about you today.
I'm gonna bake it blind with…
baking beans?
-[Toby] Just pour them in.
-These hold the pastry flat.
Gonna bake that for 20 minutes.
So I'm gonna move on
to making the ganache.
Ganache is just cream and white chocolate,
so it's fairly easy, I think.
The same amount of cream
to the same amount of chocolate.
[Nadia] Three to one, I do.
Three cream to one part chocolate.
[Toby] It's Chocolate Week,
so we should, in theory,
have been looking up how to make ganaches.
In theory.
No, three parts chocolate
to one part cream. That's it.
[Aaron] I'm just worried
about splitting my ganache.
I'm adding things to it,
which is precarious.
How long have I been whisking
this ganache for?
[Alison] Shall I do this one?
-I'll have a little sleep.
-Okay.
Bakers, you are halfway through!
Panic.
-I didn't wake you up, did I?
-No.
-I'm just taking the baking beans out.
-[Nataliia] And bake more.
[Lesley] For another five, six minutes.
Actually quite pleased with that.
Looking quite bumpy and lumpy,
but we'll see how it goes.
So I'm gonna start making my jam.
[Noel] The bakers can now start
on the elements…
[Nadia] Not even weighing this.
Just gonna go rogue.
…that they think will complement
their white chocolate ganache.
[Jasmine] I'm gonna let
the hazelnut crunch cool,
and then I'm making my mascarpone cream.
[Toby] Sieving out the pips.
[Noel dramatically] Use what you choose!
[both chuckle]
All the basil!
That might be too much basil.
Let's not do that.
[dramatically]
For if you choose and don't use,
this will be a terrible time for thee.
I'm doing a lemon curd,
and I'm gonna add some thyme into that.
And we've got… What is this?
That's a tiny, tiny bit of basil.
-Basil? You're putting that in there?
-Yeah.
It's sad, though. Look at it.
Yeah, but that's, like,
to make the rest of it look better.
Yeah, it's coming out.
I think that's done.
There's not gonna be a soggy bottom.
It looks short.
I think it was too dry going in.
I'll let it cool down in the tray.
[Nadia] It's too thick and it's cracked.
I've got a bit of leftover pastry,
so I'm actually gonna make
another pastry case.
[dramatically]
You have half an hour!
That means I've got 20 minutes
to cook my thing,
cool it, get my fillings in.
Gonna be tight.
[Noel] And to join the others showing off
their ability to decorate with chocolate…
Looks kinda like a leaf, doesn't it?
[Noel] Does anyone call you Nadia?
No, everyone calls me Nads.
-Nads. Nads?
-Yeah.
[Noel giggles] You're making
little nads right now.
[both laughing]
[Alison] While the chocolate sets…
That has not gone how I thought it would.
…it's time to build.
[Jasmine] This is
my white chocolate ganache.
I'm gonna now put my crème pat in.
Life's feeling better right now.
[Nataliia] This is my ganache.
[Nadia] My new pie is looking not bad.
[Lesley] I whipped the ganache.
I don't think it's as set as it could be.
[Aaron] Pipe one line, maybe two lines
of passion fruit gel on top.
[Nadia] I'm just hoping
it sticks together.
Think I probably could've baked it
a little bit longer.
[Nadia gasps]
Wasn't cooked enough!
[Jasmine] How long do I have left?
Bakers, you have ten minutes left.
It's a good job I didn't throw
this one away, isn't it?
[Jasmine] I'm gonna have a layer
of dark chocolate ganache
and a layer of mascarpone raspberry cream.
[Nadia] Honestly, this is laughable.
[Toby] I've got some shards.
[Lesley] Shards for the top of my tart.
[Noel] When they're happy with the tarts…
Boom!
…they need to carefully place them…
There's nothing else I can do, kiddo.
I need a cake lifter.
…onto the display stands.
[tense music playing]
[exhales]
Bakers, you have one minute left!
[Iain] Oh, God! Oh, God! [gasps]
[gasps]
[dramatic music playing]
No, no!
No!
I can't believe that.
-I'm happy with that.
-Just doing a little garnish.
That's a leaf.
It's all about the garnish.
Bakers, your time is up.
Damn!
Please come and place your tarts
behind your photos.
[sombre music playing]
Well done.
Honestly, it'll taste beautiful.
[Iain] Yeah, but it was intact!
[Alison] Paul and Prue are looking
for beautifully decorated tarts…
-[Prue] Well!
-The interpretations are interesting.
…with crisp shortcrust pastry,
and fillings that complement
the set white chocolate ganache.
Let's start with this lemon thyme curd
with white chocolate shards.
I do like the look of the shards.
They look beautiful.
It's a key lime pie.
Yeah, it is like a key lime pie.
[Prue] It is delicious, by the way.
But it isn't set.
The base is good there.
-It's nice and crispy.
-Very crisp.
[Paul] It's nice and short.
-Pistachio and lemon…
-…white chocolate and cream cheese.
Passion fruit mousse.
My God, it's got everything in there.
[Paul] The base, wow, that is very thick.
[Prue] Tastes delicious.
It's very loose as a mousse,
and that is really thick.
[Prue] It's too thick.
White chocolate tart
with a raspberry cream hazelnut crunch.
[Paul and Prue] Dark chocolate ganache,
citrus garnish.
[Prue] It's very pretty.
The raspberry and the hazelnut
would've worked with the white chocolate.
That does not.
It was a white chocolate tart.
[both] Now it's a chocolate tart.
[Paul chuckles]
Moving on, it's a whipped
white chocolate ganache tart
with a passion fruit and lime curd
and topped with
milk chocolate decorations.
Slightly wilted, er, chocolate
on the top. [chuckling]
You need to temper it properly
and get them standing up.
That pastry has been overworked.
It's like rubber.
But the flavour combinations are great.
You can actually
taste the white chocolate.
[Paul] This is a raspberry
and white chocolate tart.
-This one looks a mess.
-It's been dropped, hasn't it?
Quite pale. Wow, so delicate, that pastry,
Needed longer in the oven.
I like the flavour combination.
The raspberry is lovely.
It's very fresh. It's not too sweet.
Just a shame
that the whole base is non-existent.
[Paul] Thyme-infused white ganache tart.
-[Prue] It's a lovely colour.
-[Paul] Let's have a look.
I think the flavour's all right.
The problem is you needed to have it
with the filling
right the way onto the top.
-I like the pastry.
-I think the pastry is nice. Yeah.
We've got blackberry
and raspberry jam tart
with a white chocolate ganache
and Chantilly blackberry cream.
[Prue] This looks like
fortifications of a castle.
[Paul] It does, yeah.
[Prue] Well done. It's underbaked too.
[Paul] The colours I don't like.
The textures I don't like.
And the pastry is too thick.
-Otherwise, lovely.
-Otherwise, great.
Okay, moving on to the last one.
So it's a white chocolate tart
with a blackberry and basil cream.
I think it looks nice.
I quite like the pastry.
-I like that. Oh, lovely.
-[pastry snaps]
[Prue] Snap is so nice.
The basil gives it a very unusual flavour.
The problem is,
it overwhelms the white chocolate.
[Prue] It's interesting,
but it's not delicious.
We've never done anything
like this before,
but I think you've all done a good job,
and it's fascinating to see
your interpretation of flavours.
-But I really like that.
-Mmm.
[Noel] Prue and Paul will now rank
the tarts from least to most successful.
In eighth place, we have this one.
Who is that? Nadia.
You're a much better baker than that.
-This is like concrete walls.
-Yeah.
In seventh spot, we have this one.
Whose is this?
-Iain, pastry?
-Dropped it.
[Prue and Iain laugh]
[Alison] Nataliia is sixth, Toby fifth,
Tom fourth, and Aaron is third.
In second place, we have this one.
Jasmine.
The dark chocolate completely
overwhelms the white chocolate.
But apart from that,
I thought it was absolutely delicious.
So in first place, we have this one.
[all cheering]
You highlighted the white chocolate,
which is what it was all about.
A bit longer, that would have set.
Well done.
[Lesley] Absolutely overwhelmed.
I needed that today, I think,
to sort of give me a bit of a boost.
[Nadia] I just think I'm out my depth
a little bit now.
Fingers crossed,
I can have a better day tomorrow.
-[suspenseful music playing]
-[thunder rumbling]
[Noel] Just the Showstopper remains
before Paul and Prue decide
who will be this week's Star Baker
and who will be leaving the competition.
Welcome back to the tent, bakers,
for your final challenge
of Chocolate Week.
Today, the judges would love you to create
a spectacular chocolatey fondue display.
Ooh, I do like a fondue.
You do like a fondue, don't you?
I'm fond of a fondue. Are you?
I am fond of a fondue.
Shall we stop this right now?
-Yeah, let's-- That could go on forever.
-[Alison] It could.
The judges would like you to create
a highly decorated chocolate centrepiece
with an edible dipping pot
that can house your chocolate sauce.
Your Showstopper should be themed
and have a baked element.
-You have four hours and 30 minutes.
-On your marks.
-Get set!
-Bake!
[suspenseful music playing]
What's all this then?
Come on, melt! [chuckles]
No dilly-dallying today.
We haven't got time for that.
[Aaron] I'm feeling competitive today.
Probably the most competitive
I've actually felt.
[Paul] Today's Showstopper challenge,
our bakers have to produce
a chocolate fondue design, really.
The fondue will flow down the waterfall
and then into a pond at the very bottom.
Chocolate fondue
is basically chocolate sauce,
and then we need
at least two treats to dip into it.
These are Brazil nuts for my Florentines.
They're really quick to bake.
[Paul] We want to see
a major baked element in this as well.
It could be a cake
which could be part of the scene.
It needs to incorporate chocolate,
and, above all, taste incredible as well.
I feel like I've had to get my, like,
engineering brain that I don't have out.
[Prue] What I'm looking for
is something that turns out to show
the skill of the bakers…
[Toby] I'm a chronically
disorganised person.
Worried about all of it, really.
[chuckles]
…and is imaginative and surprising.
So it's nutty, chocolatey.
What's not to love?
[Paul] It could be amazing,
or there could be
some catastrophic failures.
But let's hope not.
We're staying positive today.
-[Paul] Morning, Nadia.
-Morning, Paul. Morning, Prue.
Tell us all about your chocolate fondue.
I am going to make a scene
from Ladies' Day.
I'm gonna do a pair of high heels.
-Oh, wow.
-And a shoe box.
And inside's gonna be
a hazelnut and chocolate tiramisu.
[Noel] What's it called? A tirami-shoe?
Tirami-shoe?
Oh, I didn't even think of that!
Tirami-shoe.
-That's what I get paid for.
-That's brilliant!
[Alison] The chocolate shoes will contain
Nadia's hazelnut liqueur fondue.
Savoiardi biscuits will go in the tiramisu
and be used to dip alongside
biscuits of chocolate and almond.
You just want everything
that's in your head to be portrayed.
And if you do well today, you'll be fine.
Okay.
-Good luck.
-Thanks, Noel.
[whispers] You're all right.
This is going to be the hat,
and then I'm gonna do the shoes.
And then that is the chocolate finito.
[Noel] Nadia is not the only one
drawing inspiration
from a staple of the British summer.
[Toby] It was gonna be a copper pot
on a butcher's block
'cause I love to cook.
Then I realised that it needed
to be 30 centimetres tall,
and I thought, "I also love to camp".
And when I say I love to camp,
I mean, I've been camping twice.
So the camping stove was born.
[Noel] The chocolate pot will contain
Toby's pistachio and amaretto fondue.
To dip into it, graham crackers,
marshmallows and churros,
while a chocolate genoise
will be the main baked element.
Have you practised this?
All on time, all good?
-[Noel] Just say yes.
-Yes.
No, absolutely not.
But I have made all the items,
but not necessarily…
You've never put them together.
Not entirely, and certainly not
in four and a half hours.
It's raining,
so it's perfect weather for camping.
[Toby] Yeah, exactly.
-[Prue] Good luck, Toby.
-Thanks.
[Alison] Toby's and the rest
of the bakers' Showstoppers…
[Tom] We want it to be structurally sound.
…all require chocolate components…
[Lesley] They're my chocolate rods.
…that need to be joined together.
[Aaron] I'm making a piano.
[Alison] While they begin to set…
Savoiardi biscuits.
They're not hard to do.
…they must crack on
with their many baked elements.
[Toby] So this is my graham crackers.
Not gonna lie, I've never made them.
[Noel] While Toby is trying something new…
That does not look right at all.
It's so wet.
[Jasmine] Lesley,
what kind of cakes you making?
Chocolate.
…Lesley's drawing
from a wealth of experience.
When we were kids, we used to go
to the beach and collect rocks,
and they had crystals in the rock.
When in the sunlight, of course,
we thought they were diamonds, didn't we?
So I'm trying to incorporate
a family favourite chocolate cake
with happy memories, really.
[Alison] Isomalt will mimic
the crystals of her childhood.
Above, chocolate cups
will allow the fondue
to float into
an isomalt and chocolate pool.
Melting moments biscuits and profiteroles
await their chocolatey fate.
They were calling me Techy Les
last night at dinner.
[Lesley and Noel laugh]
-[Paul laughs] Techy Les.
-[Lesley] Yeah.
[Paul] The melting moments,
by virtue of the name,
if your chocolate's warm,
it doesn't just melt away, does it?
When they're nice and cool,
they do hold quite well.
-Don't make her nervous.
-I'm not! I'm just asking a question.
-[Paul] Good luck, Techy Les.
-Thank you. [laughs]
I'm going on to my profiteroles now.
I'm just cooking out the floury taste.
[Noel] While Lesley hopes
her chances don't melt away…
This is gonna be Glenariff Chocolate Park.
…Iain's hoping to melt
a special someone's heart.
Don't tell anyone, but I'm planning
on proposing to Derv at this place.
I would never have applied for this
if it wasn't for Derv.
Yeah, she's the most important person
in my life.
[Noel] Irish cream chocolate fondue
will cascade down a modelling
chocolate tree-topped mountain
into a pool made
from a giant bourbon biscuit sandwich.
More bourbons and honeycomb rocks
will be on hand to dip.
Well, I'm excited
'cause you might be proposing
to your girlfriend
at this mountain of love.
So I was thinking,
you need to practise this moment.
-Do you want to hold this hand?
-I'll hold your wrist.
I'm not holding that.
-You know what, Derv?
-Yeah?
I've been thinking.
It's been seven years.
-Oh, it has been. Seven wonderful years.
-Yeah.
-Erm, Dervla.
-Yes?
-Will you marry me?
-Oh, that's such a lovely ring.
-Yes, I will!
-Aw!
-Mwah!
-[both giggling]
Dervla, you are in for a treat.
You are gonna have the best engagement.
[Iain] This is not ideal for neatness.
[Alison] Once they're properly moulded…
[Aaron] I've cut the sablé into wedges
because it's easier to bake them
rather than one large one.
This is the dough for the graham crackers,
and I want to portion it out nicely.
…the biscuits can hit the heat.
Hopefully, they'll look all right.
I'll check it at 16-ish minutes.
So I'm literally
gonna bake them like this,
on top of the glass bowl.
Going in.
[Alison] Jasmine's chocolate bowls
will be coated in milk
and dark tempered chocolate.
Amaretto fondue will cascade
from the top to the middle bowl,
while fruity financiers
and chocolate brownies await dipping.
A moulded chocolate treetop
will provide additional height.
I'm wearing chunky boots today,
so I have a bit more height.
[Noel] That's my secret.
-[laughs]
-Shh.
[Noel] I slightly fear tall people.
[Tom] These are my profiterole boulders
that will build the island
that we're making.
Tom's legs are quite something,
aren't they?
Tom! Can I have a quick glimpse
of your legs?
[Jasmine] Whoo!
[Noel] And she's not the only baker
with half an eye on Tom.
[Alison] Let's talk about this rivalry
between you and Tom.
What are you talking about? [chuckles]
He's had two handshakes. You've had none.
How can we change this up today?
-Is this gonna blow their minds?
-[Aaron] It's a grand piano.
It's about this high
with a stage out of biscuit.
[Alison] This is gonna be amazing.
[Noel] Aaron's tempered chocolate
grand piano
will hold his sour cherry-spiked
chocolate fondue.
Sablé biscuits and five-spice Florentines
will be primed for dipping.
-Do you play piano?
-No, but I wish I did.
Which is the reason
why I'm doing this. [laughs]
It's the closest to a piano I can get.
We need some music to go with this.
Maybe I'll sing. [laughs]
Can't promise it'll be good.
[laughter]
I'll hold you to that. Good luck.
[Aaron] It's such a delicate biscuit.
It's broken quite a few times,
but that's not gonna
happen today. [chuckles]
[Alison] With so many components to make…
[Tom] We've just got to move.
…success in this challenge…
One hundred eighty.
-Now for the wee ones.
-…might depend on how well the bakers…
That's the brownies in.
This is the financier mix.
…can juggle.
I don't know the science behind this.
It just goes big.
How long have we got left now?
Bakers, you are halfway through!
[gasps]
Time is flying here.
So I'm just putting my financiers in.
[Noel] And there's
little margin for error…
I've got a crack.
We've all got a crack.
…if anything does go awry.
[Alison] You've got to pull this
out the bag today.
Remember, we've done this before.
Last week. Come on.
And if someone else don't do very well…
Oh, no, don't say that.
It does feel a bit dense, but…
I'm only joking. But if it does go wrong…
[both laughing]
[Tom] There are some
rough-looking tears on those.
Yeah. to say I'm nervous
about their judging of these is accurate.
[Alison] Tom is making
both chocolate profiteroles and éclairs,
with madeleines
completing a trio of dipping treats.
Moulded sea creatures
will swim in a pistachio chocolate sea.
-[Prue chuckles]
-You're making the actual ocean.
My goodness, that sounds wonderful.
And these creatures are going to be
in the bottom of the sea.
I grew up watching
10000 Leagues Under the Sea.
So this is that kind of evil alien-y
squid-octopus monster.
[Noel] As Tom creates
the dangers from the depths…
[Nataliia] Just such a mess.
[gasps] No!
…Natalia's more concerned
with a threat from above.
[Nataliia] My inspiration
is from the famous painting,
the Last Day of Pompeii.
[Noel] Nataliia is building Mount Vesuvius
from puffed rice and chocolate cake.
Lava red fondue will pour down the side,
collecting amongst the ruins of Pompeii,
where choux and cake boulders
wait to be dipped.
Boom! Mount Vesuvius.
So this is channel for lava.
[Noel] Oh, my. Help me.
-I'm so sorry.
-I'm having a panic attack.
It's such a mess. [laughs]
My gosh!
[Noel] I'm gonna have to have a shower.
-Just go.
-You won't believe what's down here.
No. Don't look. [laughs]
This is like an episode of Hoarders.
[Lesley] I'm just smashing up my isomalt
to make the crystals
that are going in the front of the cake.
[Alison] All the bakers now have
an epic build task ahead of them.
[Aaron] It is like a labour
to get it completely sealed,
otherwise, all of my fondue
will just leak out.
[Alison] What is this?
I'm just innocent. I can't possibly
comment on what that looks like.
[Jasmine sighs] I need to get
all of these bowls covered in chocolate.
How many times we got?
Bakers, you've got one hour left.
[Iain] That's looking less phallic.
Looking more tree stump.
If loving chocolate is wrong,
I don't want to be right, Noel!
-[laughs]
-I don't want to be right.
[Alison] And for those hoping to de-mould…
[Toby] This one.
…a respectable fondue receptacle,
a misstep now…
Phew! There are some very small cracks
we're not gonna tell anyone about.
…could be fatal.
[gasps] Oh, my God. [grunts]
Whoa.
It's just detached itself
and cracked massively.
[Nadia] They haven't worked.
Have to do them again.
-Nothing like a bit of pressure.
-[Noel] How are you?
You're doing well.
Your moustache is like this.
I can always tell
when things are not going that well.
Usually you turn up.
-They send me in.
-Yeah.
[Nadia] They work all the time at home.
Is that how big your feet are?
Tiny. I've only got a size three feet.
-No, you haven't.
-Yes.
[Alison] Even at this late stage…
[Tom] My madeleines,
they've not quite yet got the actual buns.
…some items remain to be baked.
[Aaron] These are the ones
that are actually going to dip in.
Okay, do my sauce.
[Noel] And the bakers mustn't forget
the all-important fondue.
I'm basically gonna just make it
like I'd make a ganache.
[Noel] Which must be smooth…
This is getting a bit chaotic.
Too many things happening at once.
…pour easily…
I hope it's runny enough
that it will drip down.
…and celebrate chocolate.
[Iain] Irish cream, cream,
and white chocolate.
We're just Irishing it up here, aren't we?
Lovely bakers, you have half an hour left.
It's far too tall.
[whistles]
Surgery.
Is anyone feeling the stress?
This is gonna be so rough.
[Tom] Aaron,
you're giving calm energy today.
[Aaron] It's an internal implosion.
-[Tom] Aren't we all having one?
-[Aaron laughs] Timber.
[Alison] Well, Tom looks a bit stressed.
Tom's hair's sort of gone out of control.
-[laughs] I like it, though.
-[Noel] I like that.
[dramatic music playing]
[Nataliia] It's so many things here, yeah?
Look at this. So good.
I am pleased how it's turned out.
It's much better
than when I did it at home.
[Nadia] This is the hazelnut ganache.
Oh, it's cracked.
The sides are not sticking on very well.
-[Toby] How are you getting on, Nads?
-Really bad.
Yeah. So I've not started
assembling at all yet.
Those colours actually look real.
[chuckles] Sick.
-[Lesley] It looks amazing.
-[Aaron] How about you?
Oh, wow!
[Lesley] I don't wanna keep touching it.
I'm just gonna leave it as is now.
[sighs heavily]
[Toby] My hands are just
not even working properly now.
That cake has definitely come out
a bit thinner than it did at home.
[tense music playing]
Five minutes left, bakers. Five minutes.
Okay, we can do this. Yeah.
[Nadia] I'm just gonna do the sauce now.
Hazelnut liqueur.
That's good. I'm happy.
[gasps]
[Toby] Oh! It's just broken.
Hopefully, this should just slide.
-How much time have we got?
-You have one minute left.
At least I've got a hat.
Looks absolutely terrible.
[Nataliia] It's an eruption.
[Toby] Ah, man. I'm going home after this.
This is not an acceptable thing
to serve here.
[Jasmine] Done.
[Alison] Bakers, your time is up.
[Toby] Gutted.
Please step away
from your chocolate fondues.
That is absolutely incredible, mate.
[Iain] Looking at everyone else's,
it seems like I took it in a wildly
different direction than most people did.
[Nadia] I've practised it so many times.
The shoes just pop out.
I can't believe that, literally,
they were getting stuck.
That was chaos, wasn't it?
That was really stressful.
Lie on the floor
and look at the sky. [sighs]
[calm music playing]
[music turns dramatic]
[Alison] The eight towering
chocolate fondue displays
will now be judged by Prue and Paul.
Nataliia, would you like to bring up
your fondue Showstopper?
Do you want a hand?
-Yes, please.
-[Noel] Okay.
[in sing-song] Ta-da-ta-tum!
Nataliia, can you tell us
all about your chocolate fondue, please?
This is my Mount Vesuvius,
the Last Day of Pompeii.
[laughs]
[dramatic music playing]
Straightaway, I think it looks amazing.
Great job with the landscape.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] It's impressive.
My sauce is raspberry and white chocolate.
-[Prue] Very good.
-[Alison] So good.
-Yeah? Oh.
-[Paul] That's great, that.
[Prue] It's a perfect picture.
Let's see if we can get in there.
[Nataliia] So it's a sponge
with black cocoa powder
and a passion fruit and mango curd.
-[Prue] Lovely, soft cake.
-It's a fantastic flavour.
Wow. Thank you.
Inside, choux buns of passion fruit cream.
Choux bun's good. The dip is delicious.
The raspberry hit
is just the right level as well.
-It's delicious, Nataliia. Well done.
-Thank you so much.
-[Paul] Well done.
-[Nataliia] Thank you so much.
[mouthing]
[gentle music playing]
Construction is really solid, isn't it?
-[Paul] Yeah, it is.
-[Prue] Very good.
We have a white chocolate and pistachio
with a touch of cardamom dipping sauce.
[Prue] Oh, that's very good. Look.
Oh, look, he's coming up.
-Did you know he would do that?
-Yeah.
[all laughing]
-We believe you.
-[Paul] Let's have a little dip.
We've got some lemon madeleines there.
[Prue] They've not got that perfect hump.
And these little profiteroles
are filled with?
The raspberry and hazelnut crème pat.
The filling overwhelms the fondue.
It's not unpleasant. It's delicious.
It works really well.
But I'd like to have tasted the fondue.
-Thank you, Tom.
-Thank you very much.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Prue] I think it looks amazing.
Will this work? Will it go in?
-I have no idea.
-[all laughing]
-[Paul] It looks good.
-[Alison] Oh, yes. Go on, Paul.
Aw.
[Prue] Hooray.
[Prue laughs]
-It's not gonna go in the bowl.
-Yes, it is.
[Paul] There's a little bit of engineering
there which needed tweaking. Right.
We've got melting moment biscuits
with dark chocolate.
Simple, but effective.
Profiteroles with a Irish cream filling.
The liqueur inside with the cream,
it makes it quite a grown-up fondue.
Chocolate cake with a chocolate frosting.
Quite dry, the cake.
And the buttercream is gritty.
Okay.
But your profiteroles
and the biscuits are perfect.
-[Paul] Thank you very much.
-Thank you.
[serene music playing]
[Paul] I love the look of this piano.
It is incredible.
I think what you've done is very special.
Thank you.
Really shiny. Beautiful.
[Aaron] The sauce
is a cherry chocolate sauce.
Florentines are Chinese five-spice
and black sesame.
I've never tasted a Florentine like that.
What is really good about it
is it's not too sweet.
The violins are a cocoa sablé biscuit
with orange.
That's a beautiful chocolate biscuit.
It's light, buttery,
and I do think the fondue
has got a lovely kick to it as well.
Thank you very much.
[suspenseful music playing]
It looks like something
straight out of Lord of the Rings.
[laughs]
-[Prue] There it goes.
-[Noel] Yay!
-Yay!
-Very good.
-[Noel] Looks amazing.
-[Paul] It's really clever.
There are bourbon biscuits
as stepping stones
and there's a white chocolate
coffee ganache in the middle.
-[Paul] Yeah. Lovely little biscuits.
-Very nice ganache in the middle.
And there's chocolate-coated
honeycomb rocks.
I think it's lovely.
The liqueur in there is punchy,
and it carries through to the chocolate
and the honeycomb as well.
-Thank you, Iain.
-Thank you very much, guys.
[whimsical music playing]
It looks really impressive.
-It's very Jasmine.
-[chuckling]
It's an amaretto chocolate sauce.
And then, the financiers,
half of them have pear in them,
half of them have a raspberry in them,
and then a chocolate brownie.
[Paul] I'll try
one of the financiers first.
[Jasmine] That's the pear one.
[Prue] At first,
it just tastes like a financier.
And then, suddenly,
there's this little explosion of pear.
[Paul] Let's try a little brownie.
They've got white chocolate chunks
in them.
Nice and crunchy,
soft and gooey on the inside.
But it's just full of flavour.
-[loud snap]
-Oh, yes.
I love the biscuit. It's really crunchy.
[Prue] Honestly, Jasmine,
that's a really excellent display.
Looks lovely. Everything tastes wonderful.
The texture's right.
-Thank you.
-On your way in…
Oh, my goodness.
[all gasp and cheer]
[Alison] Got a handshake!
[suspenseful music playing]
I think the tempering of your chocolate
is exceptional.
[Prue] It's so shiny.
[Paul] It's a shame
it's broken apart quite a bit.
-Great consistency.
-[Prue] And these are?
[Nadia] It's Savoiardi biscuits
and hazelnut liqueur,
and a hazelnut chocolate sauce.
Needs a longer bake.
It's a bit soggy underneath.
There you go, Prue.
They are chocolate
and almond flavour biscuits.
-Oh, the biscuit's delicious. Really nice.
-Mm.
[Prue] Really good. Oh, I say.
-Wow.
It's a chocolate and hazelnut tiramisu.
Mm, that's delicious.
It is a shame
because I know you wanted to push this
and show us what you could do.
You got halfway there
and just ran out of time.
Yeah.
[suspenseful music playing]
I'm impressed with your saucepan
because it's very fine, very thin.
The dipping sauce is a roasted pistachio
white chocolate sauce.
And you have churros
slightly dusted in some icing sugar.
-You've over-fried them.
-[Toby] Mm.
-[Paul] Let's try the, erm…
-It's a graham cracker.
[loud crunch]
They're a bit hard.
[Paul] The actual dip is nice.
I just want to see what this cake is like.
-Wow. Okay.
-[Prue laughs]
It's a pistachio genoise
with roasted pistachio
and white chocolate ganache.
It's bone dry.
And I really don't like the flavour.
Overall, a bit disappointed.
-Thanks.
-[Prue] Thanks, Toby.
Showstoppers like that just make you feel
a bit out of your depth. Little bit.
No one else has really been
as dodge as me.
I'm, like, surviving.
Doing simple things and doing them well
is really paying off.
-It looks great.
-Thanks.
I always feel like I'm very, very close,
but then never quite nail it.
[birds chirping]
[serene music playing]
-How many handshakes have we had now?
-Two this week.
-Can't believe this.
I know. It's gotta stop.
I think Jasmine did a great job.
I thought that was spectacular.
[Noel] It was quite adult, wasn't it?
Her and Tom, actually.
Tom did a great job as well.
-Aaron is another one.
-His piano was just amazing.
[Paul] And those sablé biscuits
were delicious.
He must be in line for Star Baker, surely,
'cause he's had a good week altogether.
I agree.
I think Aaron is in line for Star--
I'd say Tom is there again.
-And I would say Jasmine is there again.
-And Jasmine. Again.
[Alison] I know you said
you were disappointed by Toby's.
[Paul] The cake had no flavour.
It was quite dry.
-Is he in trouble overall?
-[Paul] He is.
And in the same breath,
Nadia's had a terrible week.
There were issues with the box.
There were issues with the shoes.
She needed to do tremendously well
to save herself,
-and she needed Toby to do badly.
-Yeah.
Have you enjoyed Chocolate Week?
I have enjoyed Chocolate Week.
It's my favourite week.
Did you know I'm 90% chocolate,
10% glitter? [laughs]
I used to be the Milkybar Kid
when I was small.
-Did ya? I thought you still was.
-[both laugh]
[Alison] Prue and Paul have decided
who will be today's Star Baker
and who will be leaving the competition.
Well done, bakers.
You survived Chocolate Week.
It was amazing.
Luckily, I've got the great job this week
of announcing which one of you
is this week's Star Baker.
The Star Baker this week is…
[suspenseful music playing]
Aaron.
Oh, my God!
-[all cheering]
-[laughing]
-Yes!
-[Aaron] Oh, God.
Oh, my God!
[Noel] Well done.
Sadly, I've got the horrible job
of sending someone home today.
The baker leaving the tent today is…
[suspenseful music playing]
[sighs] Beautiful Nadia.
-Aw. [chuckles]
-[Prue] Oh, Nadia.
[all] Aw.
[Nadia] My daughter said,
"Mum, you're good at baking
You should go on that".
And I didn't think anything of it.
I just did it.
It wasn't your best week.
-You had a good time?
-Yeah, I've had a ball.
[Nadia] I've had the best time.
I've made some amazing friends.
It's been unreal.
-Oh, Nadia. I'm so sorry, darling.
-[Nadia] Thanks, Prue.
[Prue] I am so sad to see Nadia go.
She just didn't quite do enough
to save herself.
-That piano was flipping amazing.
-[Aaron] Good. Oh, great. Thank you!
Ah! [laughs]
I am elated.
Could get used to this Star Baker feeling.
It feels nice! [chuckling]
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Well done, mate.
The secret to win is about consistency,
and Aaron was the most consistent
over the three challenges.
Also the piano…
His piano is one of the best things
I've seen in chocolate for a long time.
-My gosh!
-[Prue] You survived.
[Toby] Yeah, I feel like
I dodged some bullets.
My thoughts before today were:
Don't really need to practise too much
for next week.
But, oh yeah, head down time.
[closing theme music playing]